Alright, we're gonna take a look
at the refactoring that I've done
for getting our data model over to MongoDB.
The biggest problem that we were seeing
is how we set up bidirectional mapping.
And what I wanna do here,
let's take a very simple look.
Our UnitOfMeasure is a very simple example
and what I've done there is on line 15
I've put an id value on that and we also need a@Document.
We're gonna explicitly call this a MongoDB document.
In my testing, hardly enough, this is working
without these annotations,
but this is the proper way to do it.
I was actually kind of surprised
that it did come up and save okay
inside of Mongo without these annotations.
But we do wanna call this a Mongo document explicitly,
because I think this is gonna help our application.
We're changing the model a little bit differently,
because before our Recipe, Notes, Ingredient,
they were in three different tables
in types of relational mapping.
Now what I wanna do is create three different documents.
We'll have a UnitOfMeasure document,
we'll have a Category document,
and then we'll have a Recipe document.
But that Recipe is gonna be roughly the same data model,
but now it's gonna be all together,
so we'll be storing it in a complex Mongo document.
So a little bit different.
And the big change here in the relationships
are, as of now, the Recipe is a single document,
but even though Mongo does not have a relationships,
like a relational database,
we still wanna use our UnitOfMeasure
from our Ingredients.
In this case here, taking a look at Ingredient,
so like UnitOfMeasure there.
I'll do @Document in,
oh, we don't want document here, my bad.
Not that's a database reference,
so the Ingredient is gonna get a pointer
over to the UnitOfMeasure document
inside of MongoDB.
Our Recipe, we do wanna mark that as a @Document.
And again, I've annotated it using the Spring Data
annotation for an @Id value.
And technically that should be a @DBRef too, I believe.
Now we have these DBRef's and you can see
I've removed the references here on line 40 and 45.
That was what was causing that circular dependency,
before that was causing our application to blow up.
Now let's go ahead and, double check Category,
we do want @Document on this as well.
Now let's go ahead and start this up.
And we can see that it did start up normally.
Let's go ahead over to Chrome and take a look at this.
You can see that I was doing a little testing there,
so let's come back here.
And we are now, completely clear that URL.
Now, and I don't know why Chrome
thinks this is Italian,
doesn't look like it's Italian to me.
So now I have my Spicy Grilled Chicken Taco again.
I can go in and do a View.
And this is coming up properly for us.
Now if I come back over here to IntelliJ
and see when we set that to zero,
we get a random port there.
So that's 63154, that is the port
that MongoDB is running on.
Our embedded instance of MongoDB copied that.
And let's take a look at what's going inside of Mongo,
so this Robo 3T, this is a very popular Mongo client.
And it's pretty easy to use.
And it is available for all the popular operating systems.
I am running OSX, but if you're running Windows,
I know there's flavors of it available for Windows.
So if you want to be downloading that
you can do so.
And it is also available for Linux
for you hard-core Linux guys.
And you can see in my testing
that port changed, so I actually wanna come in here,
right-click, Edit that, 'cause I have set to port zero
that embedded Mongo database is gonna come up
in a random and available port each time.
So now I'm gonna say Connect.
And this will help you visualize
what's going on inside of Mongo.
So I'm gonna take a look at the Mongo Collections.
These are, again, different from what we have here.
Let's take a look at the unitOfMeasure
and you can see that now I have documents.
I have my Teaspoon, and also the class
that it's related to in the ObjectId.
So _id that is getting translated.
Let's take a look at this
inside of IntelliJ.
So that id field is getting translated
to the _id field inside of Mongo.
Go back and take a look at the recipe,
that's a little more interesting.
Now we can see, we have the id field again,
but now we have the description, prepTime, and all that.
You can see that we do have data types here,
associated with it.
We have an Ingredients array.
And these are objects.
And now we can see the unitOfMeasure,
so that is a reference.
You can see this is set up as a DBRef
back to the unitOfMeasure collection.
You can see how that's working.
So this is actually working quite nicely for us.
Let's come back to Chrome and see.
Let's go back here.
And let's go ahead and update this.
And we'll set a Cooktime to 12
and make it Servings of 5.
And we'll do a Submit.
And we see that the data did update properly.
I'm looking at the last four, 8e79.
So let's take a look at that in Mongo.
I'm really not sure how to refresh this tool,
so close these.
8e79, so let's take a look at this guy.
And now we can see that this is changed
in the database for us.
We can see that inside of Robo 3T.
Now I do wanna point out right now,
that there's probably additional bugs in here.
We need to set up some additional testing.
And we'll take a look at that in the next couple videos,
but right now, you can see how easy it was.
It was a fairly painless for us to transition
from an SQL database to a NoSQL database like MongoDB.
Not a lot of things that we had to change.
We had to make a couple minor adjustments to our data model
to remove those bidirectional references.
So now we have, our Recipe is more of a natural POJO,
so to speak, because it doesn't have that bidirectional.
We're not setting the Recipe IDs back and forth
and that's what was causing Mongo
that initial confusion.
But now, if you look at this,
inspect this model a little bit more,
it's more of a natural POJO model
that we are saving to Mongo.
So that's one of the really nice things
about Mongo and having that natural object model.
You saw how we were working with JPA,
that's called leakage,
so the persistence layer is influencing
your object design.
Here we have a more natural object design
and we're able to have a lot more flexibility,
because we are dealing with a NoSQL database.
And like I said,
I expect there's probably a couple more bugs in here.
We're gonna be looking at this a little closer
and we'll address those in upcoming videos.
But right now, we do have basic CRUD operations
up and going with MongoDB.
So I'm pretty happy with
how easy it was to convert this project over.